---
layout: post
title: "Week 9: Post-Spring Break Group Work Reflection & Thoughts on Jim Hall"
---

Coming straight out of spring break, our first week working with the MAPLE project has been fantastic. We were able to set up a direct meeting with the project lead to explain our background and learn about the project and its needs. The team has been very welcoming and even tasked us with a few initial projects. 

<!--more-->

To start off, though not coding related, the project lead, Matt, reached out asking us if we would be willing to design an informational flyer that could be distributed to potential donors at a Harvard University conference they are attending in a few weeks. We believe they approached us about this because we had mentioned that most of us had primary experience working in front-end development and design. We were eager to accept, but of course mentioned that going forward, more coding related development (either front-end or back-end) work would be appreciated. 

Nevertheless, the four of us got together during class and was able to take their verbiage and create a flyer that the team loved! They even asked us to create two more versions of it with small changes depending on the group of interest. I think that even though this was not the most ideal first task in terms of technical development, it showed that we are willing to take on tasks, are prompt and have quick turnaround times, and lastly, produce high quality work. 

After what I believe to have been a strong first start, the team reached out again for our first coding-related task. They've essentially created a scrape of lobbying data and want us to create a visualization for it on their website. It should involve some JavaScript / HTML / CSS, which seems like an awesome opportunity to flex our development muscles. Arguably coolest of all (at least in my opinion) is that we will get to see the finished product launched on their website!

Overall, I'd say we've had solid progress connecting with the team and beginning to contribute in meaningful ways. 

## My Thoughts on Jim Hall

I thought Jim Hall's discussion this week was super interesting. He walked us through the basics of his environment FreeDOS that is used to run classic applications.

I had never actually understood the concept of DOS before reading the introductory article assigned before class. But now having read a little more, I think Jim's vision is really interesting. Modern GUIs have completely replaced DOS systems (just for simplification and ease of use) but Jim has created a useable DOS system to run these legacy systems. It gives people the ability to return an outdated version of software, and better understand the progression of technology over time. 

Finally, I thought Jim's background was particularly cool. Despite studying physics, he found that programming was an incredibly useful tool to build features to simplify physics-related tasks, hence launching his career in computer science. This really reaffirmed me to that you can always pursue a passion, despite your background. 