---
layout: post
title: "Week 7: Pre-Spring Break Group Work Reflection"
---

As many of us prepare to embark on spring break travels next week (or a just much needed relaxation break from classes and work!), I thought it would be a good time to reflect on the progress my group and I have made thus far in our project work. 

<!--more-->

To start, on the first day we all got together as a group this week (Monday), we thought it best to settle on a project to pursue for the remainder of the semester. We all were placed together because we thought we wanted to work on WordPress. I had evaluated the project and saw it as an opening environment, very welcome to contributions from beginners, and offered many different types of contribution options. However, after thinking more deeply about what contributing to WordPress would really entail, we became a little more hesitant. There are hundreds of people looking at such a large project, and it might be difficult to see an actual tangible impact in the next few weeks. 

So, we decided to look elsewhere. We wanted a small, fairly intimate project that we would actually be able to create a rapport with the project's founders. We took inspiration from one of the groups the professor highlighted in the beginning of the semester and began looking at government projects. We thought this would be a good avenue as local government projects would likely be very open to some free assistance from NYU students. So each of us began looking up open source repositories for our hometowns, until we stumbled on MAPLE: MAssachusetts  Platform for Legal Engagement.

This project was dedicated to creating a forum where MA residents could post public testimony on bills that their local politicians would be voting on so they could ideally have a greater voice in legislative development in their state. The project is soft launching in March 2023, and we thought that would be an awesome state to join as not only would we be able to help in crunch time, but also see what it is like to actually launch a platform. 

We reached out to the team and within a day the project lead invited us to a weekly meeting of theirs (though none of us were able to attend the first one due to the short notice), and offered to meet us separately from that to get us started on contributing. Though we initially thought it would be more front-end focused, he briefly mentioned some back-end work that he is need of. It will no doubt be interesting to see how this relationship pans out, but I am very excited that we already have a line of communication open. 

That all being said, my biggest concern going forward is (1) my technical skills and ability to contribute and (2) the timing of the project. For the former, I am confident in technical abilities, but am nervous to hear what type of back-end development the team might be looking for as my experience in this domain is limited. For the latter, since the project is launching this month and we won't really be able to start contributing till late March (after break), I am worried we will miss some opportunities for pre-launch development. That being said, after it launches, I am sure many bugs will pop up and that will also be very interesting to help with. 
