---
layout: post
title: "Week 6: Embarking on an Open Source Project"
---

Over the past few weeks we've taken a look at several different open source projects. Many of them have indicated that they are incredibly welcoming to contributions, even from beginners. That being said, after digging into the projects in a little more depth, I truly believe there is more than meets the eyes with many open source projects.  

<!--more-->

I previously assumed that all open source projects would be open to just about anyone making pull requests and pushing actuals changes into the source code. I now know this is definitely not the case. Many projects prefer just bug reports (and not bug fixes), documentation updates, user testing, etc. All of which do not necessarily involve actual coding. Plus, despite sounding welcoming, many do not have open issues. quick turnarounds for pull requests, or even chat forums to discuss the project. So, though it sounds a little pessimistic, digging into the open source projects for the Project Evaluation exercise actually made me realize that contributions would be harder than I originally thought. 

That being said, I am still super excited to find an open source project that I can actually contribute to and hopefully see my impact by the end. In terms of what really excites me is being able to find a project where I can ideally set up a recurring dialogue. In the beginning of the class, the professor highlighted an example of a student's project a few semesters ago where the group had recurring meetings set up with the team to discuss tangible changes that the project actually needed. This is so powerful because rather than just submitting an issue and hopefully getting assigned to it for a massive project (or one that could be unresponsive), we'd actually be able to work with the founders to discuss what is truly important to them and ways we can genuinely be helpful. Another aspect that really excites me is the change to improve my JavaScript. Having never taken AIT or anything similar, I never had the opportunity to learn JavaScript and much of what I think small projects would appreciate are design improvements to their sites. Therefore, I think I'll have the opportunity to improve my JavaScript immensely.

As mentioned previously, I anticipate challenges to pop up. First and foremost, finding a project that genuinely welcomes help from beginners and is responsive enough that we can actually get our changes implemented will be incredibly difficult. To overcome that, I think evaluating the project first is key -- there are many signs that show whether a project really welcomes contributions, and I think our first efforts should be ones that have forums for discussion, have "beginner" tags on their issues, have quick turnaround times for their pull requests, etc. Next, I think finding an issue that I am able to actually fix will be a hurdle (and this goes hand-in-hand with my lack of JavaScript knowledge). Many issues will be too complex for me to fix in a short amount of time, so finding issues that are within our capabilities and also challenge us will be important. Finally, I think collaborating with a group of students on another group's project will be interesting, as priorities and code styles might be different. Coordinating a mix will be of utmost importance. 