---
layout: post
title: "Week 5: My Take on Mek Karpeles"
---

This past week I had the privilege of listening to Mek Karpeles from the Internet Archive (and Open Library specifically) explain Open Library's mission. The discussion was super insightful and I think Mek did a great job fielding questions. 

<!--more-->

I was really struck by Mek's take on the Open Library impact. He claimed that the organization was anything super "new," but rather was just a needed shift as the world transitions from print to digital media. This took me by surprise because, even though I agree that Open Library is essentially creating a digital library, I generally think the mission behind the organization is very powerful. Wanting to make books and reading more accessible to all is very a noble cause. 

Outside of their mission, Mek cleared up some very details for me regarding how the library actually works. When I first viewed the website and did some of my own research to generate questions, my initial thought was why are book rentals limited to just one user, when it is a digital copy and therefore could have theoretically unlimited distribution. He was able to talk about the copyright and reproduction laws that prevent us, and explained that a physical copy of the book is being borrowed too. 

Finally, I thought was super cool that Mek spoke pretty passionately about letting people contribute to the project. Open Library already has a very detailed contributing guide, various videos that help newcomers start contributing, and Mek himself said that him and his colleagues are always willing to make time and welcome those wishing to contribute. 

## Open Source Contributions

Outside of Mek's discussion this week, I also wanted to briefly mention a few of the contributions I've made to open source projects thus far (my first ever!). Though I have not contributed in huge ways to any particular project, I was able to highlight a typo in the first assignment instructions, help a fellow classmate with their contribution log (they were not using the Contributions tab on their website), and even contribute to OpenStreetMap. 

The latter was definitely the most exciting. I have spent hours and hours on Google Maps and software such as PlacerAI (for work purposes) to track locations and foot traffic and OpenStreetMap was an awesome way to add details about a location that I was familiar with and then have the entire community be able to see that. Though I only added the address of a community home near my family's house, it was cool to get acquainted with the software that I will definitely be adding to more frequently. 