---
layout: post
title: "Week 13: Open Source in Industry & Project Reflections"
---

This week's class discussion was particularly interesting, because it gave us insight into how open source is used in so many areas around us. Prior to this, we had spoken about open source in much finer detail (best contribution practices, files that are necessary to make a project open source) and of course listened to presentations by popular open source developers, but this discussion definitely forced me to see the impact of open source in the broader business world. 

<!--more-->

## Open Source in Industry

Before diving into the practical examples of open source in different industries, we first spent some time discussing open source's business model, or more clearly that open source is not a business model but there are business models built around open source. As we saw in the video watched during class, organizations like U.S. Bank and Comcast (a traditional financial institution and a media company) are implementing Open Source Program offices in their respective companies to better incorporate open source software into their tech stack. I think this is really indicative of how profitable institutions still want to incorporate the ideas of the open source community, without eliminating their intellectual property. 

I think it is also notable to mention, that the representatives of these two institutions did express some hesitation in integrating open source, which means that even though they find it important, striking a balance between open source and "proprietary" code is still needed and naturally it will take time to adjust to this new code methodology. 

Back to the business model behind open source, as first discussed in the early weeks of the course, I think a main misconception of open source is that it cannot be profitable (a misconception I held myself as well). I thought primarily non-profit organizations used open source, but I know understand that businesses often adopt open source code as their fundamental base (that is open to the public), and then keep the addons, customizations, and improvements to the software as proprietary code (this is called open core). Now, this makes a lot more sense how a profitable institution can use open source since not everything they do has to be public, but they can still adopt some public code as their foundation.

Lastly, we got to take a look at some examples of open source in a variety of industries. Some notable ones for me, after looking through some of the different links, definitely include film and automotives. With film, I had truly never thought of the commonalities that all film producers, editors, and directors share, but despite every film being radically different, aspects like ["color management, timeline editing, document interchange, rendering, and compositing"](https://www.crowdcast.io/e/open-source-in-film/register) are universal across the film industry, and open source has impacted these areas greatly. Similarly, there is an open source initiative called the Automotive Grade Linux (AGL) to serve as the industry standard for automotive applications, which means that most car manufacturers have probably looked at this code!

## Project Reflections

Outside of the discussion of open source in industry, we also took some time this week to reflect on the progress of our long-term project, MAPLE. 

Over the past two weeks, my group members have been working pretty hard to find issues in the MAPLE repo that we can tackle and the progress has been very cool. Since the MAPLE team is super welcoming and efficient, usually within a few hours of making a pull request is it accepted and pushed into production. So, as a result, we can directly see the work we put in impact the appearance and functionality of the website. 

One of the cool things that I had to do for the project was create a new navigation bar under the profile icon that basically creates a drop down with a few relevant profile-related options (view profile, edit profile, sign out, etc.). Though it initially sounded like an easy task, it took me hours to figure out how to implement as I had never really worked in JavaScript or TypeScript before. So, I had to search within their code to see how they implemented their first navigation bar, and then adapt the code to fit my requirements. It was frustrating during the development process because it never quite looked how I wanted it to, but I finally reached a spot where I was happy with the progress and then within a few hours, I got to see it reflected in the production site. That feeling of accomplishment was totally surprising, but thrilling nonetheless. 

Of course, the project is not without challenges. Finding new issues on the GitHub has been difficult, as most are part of larger Epics (that are not suitable for us to tackle) or have been claimed by other individuals (sometimes weeks ago, without pull requests though). So, among the open issues, I think we've tackled a good deal of them and now we are waiting to sync with the MAPLE team to help with a few last lifts as we wrap up our project and they get ready to officially launch. We were supposed to meet with James, the head designer this past week, but due to their busy launch schedules, we haven't yet found a suitable time. So, we kind of have had to put a pause on new code contributions until we get to discuss live with them again. This is definitely a little frustrating, but totally understandable as they are balancing a ton of time-sensitive tasks themselves right now. 