---
layout: post
title: "Week 11: The Cathedral and the Bazaar Discussion Reflection"
---

Earlier this week, we were tasked with reading an essay called The Cathedral and the Bazaar, which discusses overarching themes that the author, Eric Raymond, witnessed during the development of the Linux kernel. The insights were very interesting, particularly from an open source perspective. 

<!--more-->

Firstly, I appreciated how the class discussion was structured. An overarching theme was placed on the board, and then students were encouraged to discuss their opinions on it. The themes or lessons were pulled from The Cathedral and the Bazaar, and during the discussion Raymond's story was always brought up, but in addition to that, we were able to share our own takes / stories on the theme in question. I thought this helped reinforce the themes within the book, while giving us the space to share personal experiences. 

In terms of my favorite "lesson," it would be the following: "Good programmers know what to write. Great ones know what to rewrite (and reuse)." As I shared during class, during my summer internship I would sometimes come across a piece of code that my mentor had written to solve a certain problem, and I would kind of adopt his method and tweak it to fix the problem that I was working on. At first I was worried that this would not be considered good practice, but it was actually one of my positive points of feedback by the end of the internship. Instead of reinventing the wheel, I was able to take practical solutions that worked in the past and applied them to new issues that I was seeing for the first time. This was a huge lesson I learned in my internship and to see it as one of the themes of the essay, I definitely related it to heavily. 

## Stand-Up Reports Reflection

We also took some time this week to hear short updates from each of the groups regarding their project progress. It was exciting hearing the experiences of others, especially because I think our project is probably the smallest scaled compared to the rest of the class. So hearing about their troubles with installing the development environment, and the need to improve documentation for new beginners was a surprise as (1) the development environment set up required for MAPLE was incredibly easy to understand and (2) we ran into no Mac vs PC users issues. 

As for our project progress, we are currently experiencing some delays in communication with the MAPLE team which has limited our ability to continue bridging the connection between the scraped lobbying data and the front end visualization. We are waiting on the team to give us the actual data / database connection, and are currently using dummy data as we experiment with the display. 


