---
layout: post
title: "Week 2: Understanding Codes of Conducts & Exploring Extensions"
---

I took some time to look over the Go Project's Code of Conduct and realized there are significant benefits for having such a document. To start, it clearly outlines the community's values (respect, thoughtfulness, constructive, responsible, etc.), lays out standards for contribution, the responsibilities of project maintainers, and lastly guidelines to resolve conflicts in the community. This is a super helpful document because it makes sure that everyone that chooses to contribute to the project is aware of the guidelines and expectations when doing so. Generally, I think all open-source projects should have documents like this to avoid conflicts between contributors. 

<!--more-->

Go Project adapted their Code of Conduct from the Contributor Covenant, so I took a look at their code as well. Two notable differences come to mind: (1) Go Project decided to explicitly outline their values and (2) they expanded Contributor Covenant's enforcement section to a much more detailed Conflict Resolution section. I believe they probably did this because including the project's specific values better aligns the contributor's goals with the company's goals. Next, outlining specific steps for conflict resolution likely leads to less confusion when incidents arise. 

Another adapter of the Contributor Covenant's code is Eclipse, which can be found [here](https://www.eclipse.org/org/documents/Community_Code_of_Conduct.php). It has a slightly different structure and contents than the other ones, however. They have included several more examples of acceptable and unacceptable behaviors. They also have created a far more detailed section regarding enforcement policies (Investigation of Potential Code Violations and Actions for those that do not follow the Code). They also explicitly outlined a 'No Retaliation' section to ensure that no one is discouraged or punished from bringing up potential issues or violations of the Code. 

I also looked up the Code of Conduct for the Sugar Labs project. Unlike the codes mentioned above, this one is based on the Ubuntu Code of Conduct. This is generally less detailed than the other Codes, and more serve as a generalized outline of good values when contributing to open source projects. 

An open source project of interest to me is Airbnb. Their Code of Conduct can be found [here](https://airbnb.io/codeofconduct/). Interestingly, Airbnb also adapted their Code from the Contributor Covenant. They follow roughly the same structure (pledge, standards, scope, enforcement, etc.), but have a more detailed enforcement guideline section that outlines the four stages of disciplinary actions (correction, warning, temporary ban, and permanent bans).

Outside of Codes of Conduct, we also explored extension creation in Firefox. The tutorial we followed was very detailed and made creating my first extension very easy! Working with a group was also interesting -- something I have not done in a great extent in CS classes -- but served as a great opportunity to learn from one another. 

