---
layout: post
title: "Week 14: Last Week Before Presentations"
---

This week's we had some time to work on our presentations, in fact it was the last in-class time for us to meet as a group. Though we wanted to tackle a few more issues before starting the presentation, the MAPLE team had been swamped and unable to assign us much in the past few days so we decided to go forward and start drafting our final presentation. 

<!--more-->

## Final Presentation

We wanted the presentation to accurately match MAPLE's themes, so we pulled from their style directory to match fonts, colors, shapes, and icons (depending on the response after presentations, I think it might be cool to even send to the MAPLE team, just to show them our final result and thank them for their openness over the past few weeks).

Outside of style, we wanted to make sure we accurately represented MAPLE as an organization, and smoothly transitioned from each of our contributions to the next. With some additional practice on the weekend, I believe we are prepared to give a solid overview of the biggest takeaways from our time working with the MAPLE team. 

As a final reflection about the project itself, I am proud of where we ended up. We were able to tackle a good number of issues that I know the MAPLE team was thankful for. I, myself, was exposed to JavaScript and React for the first time, which was a great learning experience. It forced me to learn at a relatively accelerated pace in order to have quick turnaround times between getting assigned an issue and pushing a pull request. And in general, working with a team of passionate volunteers really emphasized the importance of loving what you do for me and as I go forward in my career, I hope to take that lesson with me. 

## Open Source in Industry

After some time to work on the project, we also set aside time for a class discussion about our findings of "Open Source and ...". This was a fun discussion because each of us had been tasked with finding an example of open source in our daily lives, and hearing everyone's examples displayed just how much open source has affected our lives and what types of products people around me use frequently. 

One of my favorite examples from the day was Open Source and Cola, which are open-source Cola recipes. 