---
layout: post
title: "Week 12: My Thoughts on Christopher Snider & Open Source Software in Healthcare"
---

This week we had the privilege of hearing Christopher Snider, of Tidepool, discuss the Tidepool mission, products, and radical transparency (and in general the importance of open source from healthcare). I thought he was a fantastic presenter, and his more interactive style thoroughly enhanced the experience for me. 

<!--more-->

Firstly, healthcare technology is a topic that I am particularly interested in. I work in the space and am very fortunate to be able to read about the progress in new technology trends everyday. So when I was researching Tidepool, I was immediately intriguied. The inability to view one's diabetes information in a consolidated location is a real issue that huge players in the space are trying to solve constantly. Further, creating a connection between glucose monitors and autonmous insulin delivery systems is one of the newest feats of success in the diabetes space, so to hear that Tidepool is getting involved with that was also very cool to hear. 

My favorite part of the presentation was undoubtely Christopher's passion. Being a diabetic himself, he has a personal stake in Tidepool's success, and hearing that he wakes up every morning excited to do his job was refreshing and inspiring.  

Tidepool's emphasis on radical transparency circles around the idea that its development process should be completely open (even as far as their JIRA workflow board so users can see active sprints, etc.) to the public. This has enabled Tidepool to gather feedback from its users, and for a healthcare application, this is crucial. In fact, many of Tidepool's developers are diabetics themselves that utilize the application to personally identify areas of improvement. This transparency (and by nature, open source) lets users channel their personal experiences with the platform into actual tanigble changes. 

Lastly, I think its important to mention that Tidepool Loop originated from the Do-it-Yourself community's version of an autonoumous insulin delivery system that Tidepool adapted to create their own product. This is another example of the benefits of open source in healthcare, as a company was able to take the foundation from the DIY community and build a useful, FDA-approved product that can radically change the diabetes technology sector. 

## Challenges with our Group Project

The biggest issue that my group has come across in our efforts to contribute to MAPLE is finding issues that our suitable for us. Many of the ones that they have listed on GitHub are there for their internal developers (part of some Epic, and without details for the public). We've tackled most the issues that are truly suitable for outside contributors, and are struggling a bit to find a few more. We plan on meeting with the team sometime next week to discuss more avenues that they would benefit from some assistance with. 


