---
layout: post
title: "Week 3: Git Exercises & Browser Extension Project Progress"
---

Git is an incredible tool and fortunately, I've had the privilege of working with it in previous CS courses and frequently at my job. Prior to be introduced to git itself, I didn't quite realize the power of version-contol systems and their increasingly prevalence in day-to-day life. The easiest example is Google Docs, where you can return to any point in a document with ease. Git allows anyone to do the same, and though it is popularized by developers, it has the ability to track changes in all sorts of files.

<!--more-->

## Git In-Class Activity
The in-class git exercises we did were super helpful. As mentioned previously, I have had a fair amount of experience using git, so I was able to follow along fairly well. However, I had not experimented with upstream branches very much, so to see that in action was very interesting. 

I thought the examples of different types of merge conflicts was great, as it showed how git can auto-merge some changes and not others. This was my biggest issue when I first started using Git, and I think these exercises would've been super valuable to a beginner. 

Overall, it was a great refresher about the concepts of upstreams, remotes, forks, etc.

## Browser Extension Add-On Project Progress

This is a super interesting first project, and as the professor mentioned, one of the most tangible results I can actually show my parents this far into my CS degree. Our group's browser extention is called 'Jumping into RateMyProfessors at NYU.' The idea is simply to allow users to search for NYU professors in a more streamlined manner. On any webpage, simply click the extension icon, type in your professor's name, and it will immediately redirect you to the resulting RateMyProfessors webpage in a new tab. This is catered specifically to NYU students, as we limited the results to NYU but could easily be adapted for any other university. 

### Problems Faced & Corresponding Solutions

Initially, it was difficult to come up with an idea that would be interesting, useful, and doable in terms of execution given our experience with building extensions (pretty limited for all of us). We bounced around a few ideas, and ultimately landed with this RateMyProfessor add-on but settling on this was definitely an initial hurdle. 

Furthermore, when we first came up with the idea, we were thinking about letting users highlight text on a given webpage and then choose to search that text up on RateMyProfessors.com. This was more challenging than we anticipated, and we ultimiately realized would not be particularly useful as it is a fairly rare occurence for a professor's full name to be printed on a webpage. Thus, we pivoted and decided to build a search bar instead, which would still accomplish our goal of streamlining the RateMyProfessor search process. 

Next, we wanted to limit the results to just NYU professors, since the extension was built with NYU students in mind. However, it was a bit challenging figuring out how to append NYU's unique identifier to the website string and inputted text from the search bar. Fortunately, Connor was able to sort it out and explain his process to the rest of the group!

Lastly, outside of the code itself, the only other challenge was finding common times within our schedules. Given each of different work and class timings, this was slightly difficult. Being in constant communication via messages and being able to quickly hop on a Zoom was very helpful.

### Contributions

My largest contributions was building out the HTML for the search bar pop-up that is rendered upon clicking on the extension icon. 

I also wrote and edited many of the key documents in our repository, including the ReadMe, the contributors file, the Code of Conduct, and more. 

Everyone was super helpful throughout the process. 
