---
layout: post
title: "Week 4: Browser Extension Project Reflection"
---

Now, having wrapped up on the browser extension project, I find it fitting to reflect on my experience. As mentioned previously, very few Computer Science classes I have taken have focused on collaboration as a pillar of the class. The one exception being Software Engineering, which was entirely group project based. That being said, it is not the norm for us Computer Science students to have to collaborate on our code, let alone present our projects to the class so I overall thought it was a great learning experience. 

<!--more-->

## Learnings as a Coder

To start, creating a browser extension was a completely new concept to me. I have briefly been introduced to HTML, CSS, and JavaScript, but for the most part, had never really used them in great detail. So, this project was helpful in seeing those languages in practical use. 

It was particularly challenging to figure out how to append NYU's unique RateMyProfessors identifier to the name inputted in the search bar (to limit the results to NYU professors), but we were ultimately able to solve for that after a few iterations. 

Further, though I had previously used Git, collaborating on the same repository with multiple people required some additional attention in order to avoid merge conflicts. Plus, we originally opened the repository in our personal account, so having to fork it the class repository was another good reminder of how use forks / set an upstream path. Plus, creating pull requests as opposed to automatically pushing our code to the main branch was (in theory) a good way for us to ensure that we were checking over each other's code (however, in practice, on occasion we would merge our own pull requests).

Finally, as a new coder in the open source development space, this project also reaffirmed the importance of open source principles, such as including a Code of Conduct, expectations for contributions, and a detailed explanation of the project itself.

## Learnings as a Collaborator

In terms of working in the group, I think we did a good job overall. I don't think any of us struggled to work with one another, we were openly discussing ideas, and were able to offer critique in a respectful and constructive manner. Outside of CS classes, my core classes have a number of group related projects and I think I have realized that I typically take the role of an organizer. While everyone undoubtedly contributed equally, I think one thing I did well was remind everyone of deadlines, meetings, and small requirements of the project that might have slipped through the cracks (updating the live log, making sure the open source documents were detailed enough, that we practiced for our presentation prior to giving it to the class, linking our repository on the class wiki, etc.). So, I'd say organization is definitely a skill that I like to prioritize in group projects. 

## Contributions

In addition to the aspects listed right above in terms of organization, I also contributed largely to the HTML for the search bar pop-up that is rendered upon clicking on the extension icon. 

## My Favorite Browser Extensions

The YouTube Interface Customizer was by far my favorite extension presented. I think they went above and beyond and truly it is something I would use myself! A job well done to that group. 