---
layout: post
title: Week 1: My Thoughts on Open Source
---

In all honesty, my knowledge regarding “open source” was fairly limited prior to signing up for this course – in fact, that was one of the driving reasons behind my choice to register for Open Source Software Development. What did I know was the following: some very cool tools that I use on a regular basis are “open source,” or had their code available publicly so individuals could personalize their use or offer assistance in fixing bugs they come across. I was touching these open source projects without really understanding how it came to be, why the company chose to be open source, and the problems that come along with it. Now, after a few lessons about the history of open source code, I can say more confidently that there are positives and negatives of this ambiguous term. On the one hand, open source code can help developers share their work with the community, feel a sense of value as they contribute to other developers’ projects, benefit from a high quality software since thousands of people can contribute to it, and ensure transparency in your business (since you would not be able to intentionally abuse users’ data). But, there are also serious concerns. You can have many different people suggesting changes to source code, leading to misunderstanding and absolutely no guarantee the contributions will be of higher quality. Plus, if the core business value is a trade secret by nature, sharing your source code could be problematic. 

Open source projects touch our lives in more ways than we can imagine. As a student in general, Wikipedia is probably the easiest example of an open source project that I interact with on a regular basis. Anyone can edit any page to improve articles instantly. As a computer science student, three other open source projects I interact with on a daily basis: visual studio code, python, and matplotlib (I work as a data analyst). All three are open source, so I can see their source code on GitHub. Though that is a limited list, open source projects are influential and popular. 
