---
layout: post
title: "Week 10: Project Updates"
---

Our work with the MAPLE project continues on strong. We are still working on the lobbying disclosure front-end visualization, but are eager to see what else is in store after that.  

<!--more-->

For a little more context, after our first task to design some informational fliers, we were tasked with displaying lobbying disclosure information on their website. The designs had already been made, and it was up to us to write out the front-end code for it. The team had scaped this data from the [MA State Lobby](https://www.sec.state.ma.us/LobbyistPublicSearch/Default.aspx) website and wants to display in a table format (1) the client type, (2) the lobbyist's name, (3) the position of the lobbyist, and (4) the date of disclosure. 

Since the back-end scrape and SQL related cleaning has already been done, our task is largely in JavaScript / HTML / CSS but has given us a chance to look into the inner workings of the project repository. We were also able to push back a little with the existing designs and offer our own take, which has been rewarding. 

We are also scheduling meetings with the UI leads on the project to discuss implementation. Contributions are going well and I am eager to see this one live on their website. 

## Overall Contributions & Non-Project Updates

While I have been attempting to contribute more frequently, I am still struggling finding more code-related contibutions (as recommended in my mid-semester feedback), so thus far have only contributed to the course website, a peer's weekly repo, and OpenStreetMaps. I am going to push myself to be more consistent about contributing (instead of a few contributions in a given day) and try to find new places to contribute as well. 

